DBZ-2654 Edit Customizing Topic Auto-Creation (#2179)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/configuration/topic-auto-create-config.adoc

In this instance, the Kafka broker automatically creates destination topics for the tables that it captures.
//applies to internal and external topics?
However, the resulting topics all share a single default configuration.
You do not have the option to specify unique configurations for different set of topics.
If you want to create a topic with a specific configuration, you must disable automatic topic creation, and then create the topic ahead of time, either manually, or through a custom deployment process.

// Type: procedure
// ModuleID: configuring-automatic-topic-creation-in-kafka-2-6
// Title: Configuring automatic topic creation in Kafka 2.6 and later
[id="enabling-automatic-topic-creation"]
== Set up Kafka Connect

In Kafka 2.6.0, the introduction of a new property provides greater flexibility in configuring automatic topic creation.
You set the `topic.creation.enable` property in Kafka Connect to enable or disable automatic topic creation.
When automatic topic creation is enabled by this property, you can define multiple configuration profiles and apply them to groups of topics based on topic names.

> The default value for the property is `true`, enabling automatic topic creation, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: So I think this is confusing, as there's two different concepts at play here:

* auto-topic creation by the broker; this has existed before, and means the broker will automatically create a missing topic when receiving a message for a non-existent topic; this is generally not recommended to use as you'll end up with only a single setting for all those auto-created topics
* topic creation via Kafka Connect: this is new, and here Kafka Connect does create any missing topics, based on the connector configuration; i.e. topics are _not_ auto-created by the broker

The two concepts should not be confused in the docs.

Author: Yes, I'll do a better job of clarifying the distinction.

toc::[]

Beginning with Kafka 2.6.0, you can set the Kafka Connect configuration to permit automatic creation of topics.
If you enable automatic topic creation,

> when Debezium emits a change event record, Kafka Connect ingests the record into Kafka and writes it to a topic.

Reviewer: This part of the sentence is always true, also without the condition on the line before.

> Topic are named based on the pattern `server.schema.table`, for example, `dbserver`.myschema.inventory`.

Reviewer: By default, topics are named...

It's not possible for the broker to apply unique configurations to different topics.

The Kafka broker uses the `auto.create.topics.enable` property to control automatic topic creation.
By default, the value of the property is set to `true` to enable the broker to create topics if they do not already exist.
If you use a version of Kafka earlier than 2.6.0, and you want to create topics with specific configurations, you must disable automatic topic creation at the broker level.
You must then explicitly create the topics, either manually, or through a custom deployment process.

.Procedure

* In the broker configuration, set the value of `auto.create.topics.enable` to `false`.

[NOTE]
====
In environments that run Kafka version 2.6.0 or later, the Kafka Connect property to enable automatic topic creation is independent of the broker property.
The Kafka Connect configuration takes precedence over the broker configuration.
Disabling topic creation at the broker has no effect on whether Kafka Connect can create topics.
However, if you configure Kafka Connect to create topics, and you retain the default broker configuration,

> the broker creates topics when none of the topic creation groups in the Kafka Connect configuration apply,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the broker creates topics when none of the topic creation groups in the Kafka Connect configuration apply.
```

====

// Type: procedure
// ModuleID: configuring-automatic-topic-creation-in-kafka-connect
// Title: Configuring automatic topic creation in Kafka Connect
[id="enabling-automatic-topic-creation"]
== Set up Kafka Connect

In Kafka 2.6 and greater, you can set a Kafka Connect property that specifies whether Kafka Connect can create topics that a {prodname} connector writes if those topics do not already exist.
The `topic.creation.enable` property in Kafka Connect enables or disables automatic topic creation.
The setting for the `topic.creation.enable` property applies to all workers in the Connect cluster.

> The default value for the property is `true`, enabling automatic topic creation, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: Where is this  example?

The default value for the property is `true`, enabling automatic topic creation, as shown in the following example:

[source,options="nowrap",shell]
----
topic.creation.enable = true
----

The setting for the `topic.creation.enable` property applies to all workers in the Connect cluster.

Kafka Connect automatic topic creation requires you to define the configuration properties that Kafka Connect applies when creating topics.
You specify topic configuration properties in the {prodname} connector configuration by defining topic groups, and then specifying the properties to apply to each group.
The connector configuration defines a default topic creation group, and, optionally, one or more custom topic creation groups.
Custom topic creation groups use lists of topic name patterns to specify the topics to which the group's settings apply.
For details about how Kafka Connect matches topics to topic creation groups, see xref:topic-creation-groups[].
For more information about how configuration properties are assigned to groups, see xref:topic-creation-group-configuration-properties[Topic creation group configuration properties].

> By default, topics that Kafka Connect creates are named based on the pattern `server.schema.table`, for example, `dbserver`.myschema.inventory`.

Reviewer 2: not enough or too many ` `` ` signs?

Author: Oops. Yes. Thanks, for catching that ... one extra there. Fixed it.

ifdef::community[]
[NOTE]
====
If you don't want to allow automatic topic creation by connectors, set the value of `topic.creation.enable` to `false`
in the Kafka Connect configuration (_connect-distributed.properties_ file or via environment variable
_CONNECT_TOPIC_CREATION_ENABLE_ when using https://hub.docker.com/r/debezium/connect[{prodname}'s container image for Kafka Connect]).
====
endif::community[]

ifdef::product[]

.Procedure

> * To prevent connectors from creating topics automatically, set the value of `topic.creation.enable` to `false`

Reviewer: It's not exactly connectors but Kafka Connect which creates topics.

----
endif::product[]

[NOTE]
====

> Automatic topic creation requires the `replication.factor` and `partitions` properties to be set for at least the `default` topic creation group.

Reviewer: See above, I think we should not name this "automatic topic creation". Would be interesting to see how it's described in the Kafka KIP.

Author: Topic auto-creation = topic automatic creation = automatic topic creation, doesn't it?  I'm not sure what is your objection. Do you think that using the same terminology to refer to Kafka Connect topic creation and broker topic creation is too confusing? 

In the KIP we see the following phrase: _"Kafka Connect should instead be able to create the topics automatically for source connectors ..."_ Elsewhere there's a reference to _"creation of new topics during runtime"_ and _"topic creation during runtime."_

We could instead refer to _"runtime topic creation"_. WDYT?

Reviewer: Perhaps it needs qualifying? "Kafka Connect automatic topic creation"? Or "Automatic topic creation driven by Kafka Connect"?

> Do you think that using the same terminology to refer to Kafka Connect topic creation and broker topic creation is too confusing?

Yes, that's my concern. But perhaps it's not a problem if things become clear from the context.

ifdef::community[]
[NOTE]
====

> If you don't want to allow automatic topic creation by connectors, set the value of `topic.creation.enable` to `false`

Reviewer: "by Kafka Connect"

----
endif::product[]

[NOTE]
====
Automatic topic creation requires the `replication.factor` and `partitions` properties to be set for at least the `default` topic creation group.
It is valid for groups to obtain the values for the required properties from the default values for the Kafka broker.
====

// Type: concept
// ModuleID: configuration-of-automatically-created-topics
// Title: Configuration of automatically created topics
[id="configuration"]
== Configuration

For Kafka Connect to create topics automatically, it requires information from the source connector about the configuration properties to apply when creating topics.
You define the properties that control topic creation in the configuration for each {prodname} connector.

> As Kafka Connect create topics for event records that a connector emits, the resulting topics obtain their configuration from the applicable group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As Kafka Connect creates topics for change event records that a connector emits, the resulting topics obtain their configuration from the applicable group.
```

[NOTE]
====
If you specify both `include` and `exclude` properties for a custom topic group, the exclusion rules
take precedence, and override the inclusion rules.
====

ifdef::community[]
See {link-prefix}:{link-install-debezium}#_configuring_debezium_topics[Configuring {prodname} topics] in the
{prodname} installation guide on generic topic configuration considerations.
endif::community[]

ifdef::product[]
For general information about configuring topics, see {link-prefix}:{LinkDebeziumInstallOpenShift}#kafka-topic-creation-recommendations[Kafka topic creation recommendations] in {NameDebeziumInstallOpenShift}.
endif::product[]

// Type: procedure
// ModuleID: specifying-the-configuration-for-the-debezium-default-topic-creation-group
// Title: Specifying the configuration for the {prodname} default topic creation group
[id="default-topic-creation-group-configuration"]
=== Default group configuration

You must create a default topic creation group and define a configuration for it.
The configuration for the default topic creation group is applied to any topics whose names do not match the `include` list pattern of a custom topic creation group.

.Procedure

> * To define properties for the `topic.creation.default` group, add them to the connector configuration JSON, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: For downstream, this shouldn't be JSON but rather the AMQ Streams CR.

Author: > AMQ Streams CR.

I think that what you mean is that on Streams, you must define the properties for the default group in the CR _for the Debezium connector_? Is that correct?

I'd like to provide an example, but I'm having trouble coming up with one that I can model. I believe that you would specify the properties in `spec.config`, yes? So something like this:

```
spec:
...

   config:
...
     topic.creation.default.replication.factor: 3 
     topic.creation.default.partitions: 10  
     topic.creation.default.cleanup.policy: compact  
     topic.creation.default.compression.type: lz4  
```

Author: Added a conditionalized example for downstream that shows the configuration as an excerpt from a connector custom resource.

|4
|`topic.creation.default.compression.type` is mapped to the {link-kafka-docs}/#compression.type[`compression.type`]
property of the {link-kafka-docs}/#topicconfigs[topic level configuration parameters] and
defines how messages are compressed on hard disk.
|===

[NOTE]
====
Custom groups fall back to the `default` group settings only for the required `replication.factor` and `partitions` properties.
If the configuration for a custom topic group leaves other properties undefined, the values specified in the `default` group are not applied.
====

// Type: procedure
// ModuleID: specifying-the-configurations-for-debezium-custom-topic-creation-groups
// Title: Specifying the configuration for {prodname} custom topic creation groups
[id="custom-topic-creation-group-configuration"]
=== Custom group configuration

You can define multiple custom topic groups, each with its own configuration.

.Procedure
ifdef::community[]

> * To define a custom topic group, add a `topic.creation._<group_name>_.include` property to the connector JSON, and

Author: > is it possible in asciidoc to have `_` as italic styling inside a `` `` `` block?

Yes, our standard downstream for styling replaceable content in a code example is an italicized string of lower case text enclosed in angle brackets.

list the properties for the custom group after the group name.
+
The following example shows sample configurations for the `inventory` and `applicationlogs` custom topic creation groups:
+
[source,options="nowrap",json]
----
{
    ...

    //<1>
    "topic.creation.inventory.include": "dbserver1\\.inventory\\.*",  //<2>

>     "topic.creation.inventory.replication.factor": 3,

Reviewer 2: I think I left out that `replication.factor` property on purpose to showcase the above note, that `Custom groups fall back to the `default` group settings for the required "replication.factor" and "partitions" properties`

Author: Oh, ok. Yup, I made a mistake when adding the CR example, and inadvertently overwrote the original JSON example. Bad copy/paste error when I went to restore it, which I then propagated to the completed example later. :(

applied only to topics with names that match the specified regular expression. Because an `exclude`
property is also defined for this group, the topics that match the `include` regular expression might be
further restricted by the that `exclude` property.

|5
|`topic.creation.applicationlogs.exclude` defines a regular expression to match all topics that start
with `dbserver1.logs.applog-old-`. The configuration that is defined for the `applicationlogs` group is
applied only to topics with name that do *not* match the given regular expression. Because an
`include` property is also definedfor this group, the configuration of the `applicationlogs` group is applied only to topics
with names that match the specified `include` regular expressions *and* that do _not_ match the specified `exclude` regular
expressions.
|===

// Type: procedure
// ModuleID: registering-debezium-custom-topic-creation-groups
// Title: Registering {prodname} custom topic creation groups
[id="registering-custom-topic-creation-groups"]
=== Registering custom groups

After you specify the configuration for any custom topic creation groups, register the groups.

.Procedure

> * Register custom groups by adding the `topic.creation.groups` property to the connector JSON, and specifying a comma-separated list of groups.

Reviewer: JSON should only be used upstream. Same comment below and potentially elsewhere in this doc.

     ...
}
----
endif::community[]
ifdef::product[]
* To define a custom topic group, add a `topic.creation._<group_name>_.include` property to `spec.config` in the connector custom resource, followed
by the configuration properties that you want to apply to topics in the custom group.
+
The following example shows an excerpt of a custom resource that defines the custom topic creation groups `inventory` and `applicationlogs`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta1
kind: KafkaConnector
metadata:
  name: inventory-connector
...
spec:
...

   config:
... //<1>
     topic.creation.inventory.include: "dbserver1\\.inventory\\.*"  //<2>

>      "topic.creation.inventory.replication.factor": 3

Reviewer 2: remove the double quotes here

Author: Ah, thanks, I missed missed seeing the extra quotes. :+1: Fixed it.

    "topic.creation.applicationlogs.compression.type": "lz4"
}
----
endif::community[]

ifdef::product[]
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta1
kind: KafkaConnector
metadata:
  name: inventory-connector
...
spec:
...

   config:
...
    topic.creation.default.replication.factor: 3,
    topic.creation.default.partitions: 10,
    topic.creation.default.cleanup.policy: compact
    topic.creation.default.compression.type": lz4
    topic.creation.groups: inventory,applicationlogs
    topic.creation.inventory.include: dbserver1\\.inventory\\.*

>     topic.creation.inventory.replication.factor: 3

Reviewer 2: again, not needed to repeat the default group value here, as long there's no foreseeable reason to update the default group's value in the future and keep that value for this group.

Author: Thanks for your close review. Sorry about the silly mistakes. :(
